pastit.site
Complete AWS Architecture & Implementation Guide
How every service works, how they talk to each other, and why
React Frontend API Gateway DynamoDB Route 53 + ACM
S3 + CloudFront Lambda Functions S3 Content Store WAF Security
1. The Big Picture
pastit.site is a zero-knowledge encrypted clipboard. When someone shares content, their
browser encrypts it before anything leaves their device. Your AWS infrastructure only ever
stores and serves encrypted noise — it has no ability to read what users share.
The entire backend is serverless. There are no EC2 instances, no servers to patch, no
containers to manage. Everything runs on demand and costs near zero until you have real
traffic.
Two URLs, Two Jobs
• pastit.site — the landing page, served statically from S3 via CloudFront
• pastit.site/someslug — the app itself, same React build, same CDN delivery
A user who visits pastit.site/anything gets the React app. React then reads the slug from the
URL, checks availability, and shows either the creation workspace (slug is free) or the
view/password screen (slug has content).
2. GoDaddy to Route 53 — Domain Migration
Your domain is currently at GoDaddy. You need to move DNS management to AWS Route 53
so all your AWS records stay in one place. This is a nameserver switch, not a domain transfer
— the domain stays registered at GoDaddy.
Step-by-Step Migration
Log into AWS Console. Go to Route 53 > Hosted Zones > Create Hosted Zone.
1
Enter your domain name (pastit.site) and choose Public Hosted Zone. Click Create.
AWS gives you 4 nameserver values like ns-123.awsdns-45.com. Copy all four of
2
them.
Log into GoDaddy. Go to My Domains > pastit.site > DNS > Manage DNS. Scroll
3
down to Nameservers. Click Change.
Select Custom nameservers. Delete GoDaddy's default ones. Paste in all 4 AWS
4
nameservers. Save.
DNS propagation takes 24-48 hours worldwide. During this time some users hit old
5 GoDaddy DNS, others hit Route 53. Both work fine — GoDaddy records still exist,
Route 53 is just taking over gradually.
Once propagated, ALL DNS for pastit.site is controlled from Route 53. You add
6
records here from now on.
What Records Route 53 Will Hold
Record Type Purpose
A / ALIAS Points pastit.site to your CloudFront distribution
CNAME Points www.pastit.site to CloudFront (if needed)
CNAME ACM certificate validation records (AWS adds these automatically)
MX If you ever add email, mail routing goes here
After migration your GoDaddy account keeps the domain registration (renewal, ownership) but
GoDaddy DNS is bypassed entirely. Route 53 charges $0.50/month per hosted zone plus tiny
per-query fees — basically free.
3. ACM — SSL Certificate
AWS Certificate Manager gives you a free HTTPS certificate for pastit.site and *.pastit.site. It
auto-renews. You never touch it again after setup.
Property Detail
What it does Issues and manages TLS/SSL certificates for your domain
Cost Free for certificates used with AWS services
Region Must be created in us-east-1 (required for CloudFront)
Renewal Fully automatic — AWS renews before expiry
Validation DNS validation via CNAME record in Route 53
How It Works
You request a certificate for pastit.site and *.pastit.site. AWS gives you a CNAME record to add
to Route 53. Once you add it (takes 30 seconds), AWS verifies you own the domain and issues
the cert within minutes. CloudFront then uses this cert to serve HTTPS to every user on the
planet.
The CNAME stays in Route 53 forever. AWS checks it periodically to renew the certificate
automatically — you never have to touch it again.
4. CloudFront — Global CDN
CloudFront is the front door of your entire application. Every single request to pastit.site hits
CloudFront first. It has 400+ edge locations worldwide, so a user in Tokyo gets served from
Tokyo, not from your S3 bucket in us-east-1.
Property Detail
What it does Global content delivery, HTTPS termination, caching, routing
Edge locations 400+ cities worldwide
HTTPS Uses your ACM certificate — free, auto-renewing
Cost First 1TB/month free, then ~$0.0085/GB. Practically free at early stage.
Cache TTL Static assets cached at edge for 1 year. API calls bypass cache.
Two Origins in One Distribution
Your CloudFront distribution has two origins configured:
Origin 1 — S3 static site bucket. Serves your React app files (index.html, main.js, CSS). When
someone hits pastit.site or pastit.site/anything, CloudFront checks if the path matches a static
file. If yes, it returns it from the nearest edge cache.
Origin 2 — API Gateway. All requests to /api/* get forwarded to API Gateway, which routes
them to your Lambda functions. CloudFront passes these through without caching.
The SPA Routing Trick
React is a Single Page Application. There is only one real HTML file — index.html. When
someone visits pastit.site/myslug directly, CloudFront would normally return a 404 because
there is no file called myslug. You configure a custom error response: any 403 or 404 from S3
gets rewritten to return index.html with a 200 status. React then reads the URL and renders the
right view.
WAF Sits Here
WAF (Web Application Firewall) attaches directly to CloudFront. Every request passes through
WAF before CloudFront even processes it. WAF blocks known malicious IPs, SQL injection
patterns, XSS attempts, and rate-limits aggressive callers. You never have to do this yourself.
5. S3 — React App Hosting
S3 is object storage. You store your compiled React build here (index.html, main.js, CSS files,
images). S3 serves these files when CloudFront requests them. Users never talk to S3 directly
— they always go through CloudFront.
Property Detail
What it stores React build output: index.html, JS chunks, CSS, public assets
Access Private — only CloudFront can read it (Origin Access Control)
Cost First 5GB free, then $0.023/GB. Negligible.
Deployment aws s3 sync ./build s3://your-bucket-name --delete
Invalidation After deploy, run CloudFront invalidation to clear cached old files
Deployment Flow
Every time you update the frontend: run npm run build locally, sync the build folder to S3, then
invalidate CloudFront cache. Takes about 60 seconds total. Users get the new version
immediately after invalidation.
The bucket is configured with static website hosting disabled — CloudFront handles all delivery.
The bucket itself blocks all public access. CloudFront uses Origin Access Control (OAC) to
authenticate its requests to S3.
6. API Gateway — The Router
API Gateway is the entry point for all backend requests. Your React frontend sends HTTP calls
to specific paths, and API Gateway maps each path to the right Lambda function. It handles
authentication headers, CORS, request validation, and throttling.
Property Detail
Type HTTP API (simpler, cheaper than REST API)
What it does Routes HTTP requests to Lambda functions
Cost $1.00 per million requests — effectively free at early stage
CORS Configured here to allow your React frontend's origin
Throttling Default 10,000 requests/second, burstable
Route Map — Every Endpoint
Route Lambda
POST /api/clip create — encrypts metadata and stores clip
GET /api/clip/{slug} view — fetches clip metadata (no content yet)
POST view — verifies password, returns encrypted blob
/api/clip/{slug}/unlock
DELETE delete — removes clip immediately
/api/clip/{slug}
GET /api/slug- check — returns available/taken status
check/{slug}
API Gateway adds the stage prefix automatically. You configure it once and forget it. Every
Lambda gets invoked with the full request context — method, path, headers, body, query
params.
7. Lambda — The Brain
Lambda runs your business logic. A Lambda function is just code that runs when called. It starts
in milliseconds, runs your function, and stops. You pay only for the milliseconds it runs. There
are no servers, no idle cost, no capacity planning.
Property Detail
Runtime Node.js 20 (or Python 3.12 — your choice)
Memory 256MB per function — sufficient for all clip operations
Timeout 10 seconds (clip operations complete in under 1 second)
Cold start ~200ms on first call after idle — invisible to users
Cost First 1 million calls/month free. Then $0.20 per million. Practically zero.
Lambda: create
Called when a user hits Create & Share. Receives: slug, encrypted blob, password hash, expiry
setting, max views, burn-after-read flag.
What it does: Checks DynamoDB that the slug is not already taken. Writes the encrypted blob to
S3 at the key clips/{slug}. Writes metadata to DynamoDB — slug as partition key, expiry
timestamp, view count starting at 0, password hash, all flags. Returns the shareable URL to the
frontend.
What it never does: reads the encrypted blob, knows the password, or stores any plaintext
content.
Lambda: view (metadata)
Called the moment a recipient opens the link. Receives: slug only.
What it does: Reads DynamoDB for this slug. Returns metadata only — content type, expiry
time, whether a password is required, current view count, whether it is locked. Does NOT return
the encrypted blob yet. The frontend uses this to decide whether to show a password prompt or
go straight to content.
Lambda: view (unlock)
Called when the recipient submits the password. Receives: slug, password hash.
What it does: Reads wrong-attempt count from DynamoDB. If 5 or more, returns locked error
immediately. If under 5, compares the submitted hash against the stored hash. If wrong,
increments attempt counter atomically and returns wrong-password error with attempts
remaining. If correct, fetches the encrypted blob from S3 and returns it. Also increments view
count. If burn-after-read is set, deletes both the DynamoDB record and S3 object immediately.
Lambda: cleanup
Not triggered by users. Triggered by EventBridge on a schedule (every hour).
What it does: Scans for S3 objects whose corresponding DynamoDB record has expired or
been deleted. Deletes those S3 objects. This catches any S3 blobs left behind when
DynamoDB TTL deleted the metadata record. DynamoDB TTL handles its own cleanup natively
— Lambda only needs to clean S3.
Lambda: slug-check
Called in real time as the user types a slug. Receives: slug string.
What it does: Simple DynamoDB read. If the slug exists and has not expired, returns taken.
Otherwise returns available. Response is under 50ms — fast enough for real-time green/red dot
feedback while typing.
8. DynamoDB — Metadata Store
DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database. It stores all clip metadata. It never stores
content — content lives in S3. DynamoDB scales automatically, has single-digit millisecond
reads, and costs practically nothing at your scale.
Property Detail
Type NoSQL key-value / document store
Partition key slug (string) — every clip lookup goes by slug
Billing mode On-demand (pay per request, no capacity planning)
Cost First 25GB storage free. Reads/writes fractions of a cent per million.
TTL Built-in expiry — set a Unix timestamp, DynamoDB auto-deletes the
record
What Each Record Contains
Field Description
slug Partition key. e.g. myslug
passwordHash Bcrypt hash of the password. Never the password itself.
contentType text or file
expiresAt Unix timestamp. DynamoDB TTL uses this to auto-delete.
viewCount Number of successful views. Incremented atomically.
maxViews Optional cap. Lambda checks this and deletes if exceeded.
wrongAttempts Failed password count. Locked at 5.
burnAfterRead Boolean. If true, Lambda deletes record + S3 object after first view.
s3Key Key of the encrypted blob in S3 (usually clips/slug)
integrityHash SHA-256 of the encrypted blob for tamper detection
createdAt ISO timestamp of creation
TTL — Auto-Expiry
DynamoDB's TTL feature watches the expiresAt field. When the current time passes that
timestamp, DynamoDB deletes the record automatically. No Lambda, no cron job, no cost. This
is how 1-day, 7-day, and 30-day clips self-destruct — you just set the right timestamp at
creation and DynamoDB handles the rest.
Atomic Operations — Why Wrong Attempts Cannot Be Gamed
When a wrong password is submitted, Lambda uses a DynamoDB conditional update:
increment wrongAttempts only if the current value is less than 5. This is a single atomic
database operation. Two simultaneous wrong guesses cannot both read 4, both add 1, and both
write 5 — one will fail the condition check. This prevents race-condition brute force attacks.
9. S3 — Encrypted Content Store
A second S3 bucket stores the actual clip content — but only as encrypted blobs. Lambda
functions write to and read from this bucket. The React frontend never talks to this bucket
directly.
Property Detail
What it stores AES-256-GCM encrypted blobs at key: clips/{slug}
Access Private — only Lambda IAM role can read/write
Max object size 50MB (your file upload limit)
Cost $0.023/GB/month. A 1KB text clip costs $0.000000023/month.
Lifecycle rule Objects older than 35 days auto-deleted as a final safety net
Encryption at rest S3 server-side encryption (AES-256) — double-encrypted
Write Path (Create)
Browser encrypts content → sends encrypted blob to API Gateway → Lambda create receives
blob → Lambda calls S3 PutObject at clips/{slug} → S3 stores it → Lambda writes the S3 key to
DynamoDB record → returns success to frontend.
Read Path (View)
Recipient submits correct password → Lambda view calls S3 GetObject at clips/{slug} → S3
returns encrypted blob → Lambda forwards blob to frontend → browser decrypts locally using
the user's password → plaintext appears on screen. The server sees a blob go out. It cannot
read it.
10. EventBridge — Scheduled Cleanup
EventBridge is AWS's event bus and scheduler. You configure a rule that fires the cleanup
Lambda every hour. That is its entire job for pastit.site.
Property Detail
What it does Triggers Lambda cleanup on a schedule
Schedule rate(1 hour) — every 60 minutes
Cost First 14 million events/month free. This fires 720 times/month. Free.
Why needed DynamoDB TTL deletes metadata records. S3 blobs are orphaned.
EventBridge fires Lambda to clean them up.
The three-layer cleanup system: DynamoDB TTL deletes the record. EventBridge + Lambda
cleanup deletes the orphaned S3 object. S3 lifecycle rule at 35 days deletes anything that
somehow slipped through both. Belt, suspenders, and a safety pin.
11. WAF — Web Application Firewall
WAF sits in front of CloudFront. Every request passes through WAF before anything else. It
blocks bad traffic before it ever reaches your application.
Property Detail
What it blocks Known malicious IPs, SQL injection, XSS, bad bots
Rate limiting IP-based — blocks IPs sending too many requests too fast
Managed rules AWS maintains the rule sets — you subscribe, they update
Cost $5/month base + $1 per million requests. This is your biggest fixed cost.
Logging Can log every blocked request to CloudWatch for analysis
WAF is configured with the AWS Managed Rules Common Rule Set — this covers OWASP Top
10 automatically. For your use case, the most important protection is rate limiting on the
/api/clip/{slug}/unlock endpoint — this is the password-guessing endpoint. Even though
DynamoDB locks after 5 attempts, WAF adds a network layer that blocks IPs making too many
unlock attempts across different slugs.
12. Complete Request Flows
Flow A: Creating a Clip
This is what happens from the moment a user types their content and hits Create & Share.
User types content in the React textarea at pastit.site/myslug. Browser runs PBKDF2
on the password with 310,000 iterations to derive a key. Browser runs AES-256-
1
GCM encryption on the content. All of this happens in JavaScript — nothing has left
the browser yet.
Browser sends POST /api/clip with: slug, encrypted blob (base64), password hash
2 (not the password), expiry setting, flags (burn-after-read, max views, etc.), integrity
hash (SHA-256 of the encrypted blob).
Request hits Route 53 DNS, resolves to CloudFront. WAF inspects it. Clean, so it
3
passes through.
CloudFront sees /api/* path, forwards to API Gateway origin. API Gateway maps
4
POST /api/clip to Lambda create. Invokes it with the full request.
Lambda create: checks DynamoDB that slug is available. Puts encrypted blob to S3
5 at clips/myslug. Writes DynamoDB record with all metadata. Returns {url:
'pastit.site/myslug', qrCode: '...'} to the browser.
6 Browser shows the shareable link and QR code. Done. Server never saw plaintext.
Flow B: Viewing a Clip (Password-Protected)
This is what happens when a recipient opens a shared link.
1 Recipient visits pastit.site/myslug in their browser.
CloudFront serves index.html from S3 (the React app). React boots, reads /myslug
2
from the URL.
React sends GET /api/clip/myslug — metadata only. Lambda view reads
3 DynamoDB, returns: content type, expiry timestamp, password required: true,
locked: false, views remaining. No blob yet.
React shows the password entry screen with the countdown timer. Recipient types
4
the password.
Browser hashes the password locally. Sends POST /api/clip/myslug/unlock with the
5
hash.
Lambda view: checks wrong attempt count in DynamoDB. Under 5. Compares
submitted hash against stored hash. Match. Fetches encrypted blob from S3.
6
Increments view count atomically. If burn-after-read, deletes DynamoDB record and
S3 object. Returns encrypted blob to browser.
Browser receives encrypted blob. Runs AES-256-GCM decryption with the user's
7 password. Plaintext appears on screen. Decryption happened entirely in the browser
— no plaintext ever on a wire.
Flow C: Wrong Password + Lockout
1 Recipient submits wrong password. Lambda checks attempt count: currently 2.
Lambda does conditional atomic increment on DynamoDB: wrongAttempts =
2 wrongAttempts + 1 IF wrongAttempts < 5. Success. New value: 3. Returns: wrong
password, 2 attempts remaining.
3 React shows the error with attempts remaining count.
At 5th wrong attempt, Lambda increments to 5. Returns locked. React shows the
4
lock screen — no more input accepted. No further Lambda calls can unlock this clip.
13. React Frontend Architecture
The frontend is a standard React app. It reads the URL to determine what to render. There are
no page reloads — everything is a single page with React Router managing views.
URL-Driven Routing
URL What React Renders
pastit.site Landing page — hero, features, how it works
pastit.site/:slug Creation workspace — textarea, file upload, encryption panel, advanced
(slug is free) options
pastit.site/:slug View screen — password prompt if encrypted, or content directly if not
(slug is taken)
Creation Workspace Components
• Slug availability indicator — debounced GET to /api/slug-check/{slug} as user types,
green/red dot updates in real time
• Text/File toggle — switches between textarea and drag-drop file zone
• Encryption panel — password input with strength meter, confirm field, AES-256 badge
• Advanced options — expiry picker, burn after read toggle, max views input
• Create button — triggers browser-side encryption then POST to /api/clip
View Screen Components
• Metadata fetch on load — GET /api/clip/{slug} for expiry, type, lock status
• Countdown timer — live updating from the expiry timestamp
• Password card — input, submit, shows attempts remaining on failure
• Lock screen — replaces everything when wrongAttempts reaches 5
• Content display — text in a card with copy button, files with download button
14. Encryption — How It Works
This is the core feature that makes pastit.site genuinely different. Everything runs in the browser
using the Web Crypto API — a native browser cryptography library that is fast, secure, and
requires no dependencies.
Step 1: Key Derivation (PBKDF2)
The user's password is a string. You cannot use a string directly as a cryptographic key.
PBKDF2 (Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2) stretches and hashes it into a proper
256-bit key.
Parameters: 310,000 iterations, SHA-256 hash, random 16-byte salt. The salt is stored
alongside the encrypted blob so the recipient's browser can derive the same key with the same
password. The 310,000 iterations means a brute-force attack takes 310,000x longer than a
simple hash — making offline cracking practically impossible for any reasonably strong
password.
Step 2: Encryption (AES-256-GCM)
AES-256-GCM is authenticated encryption. It does two things simultaneously: encrypts the
content so it cannot be read, and produces an authentication tag that detects any tampering. If
even one bit of the encrypted blob is changed, decryption fails with an authentication error.
A random 12-byte IV (Initialization Vector) is generated fresh for every clip. Same password,
different IV, completely different ciphertext — so two users with the same password produce
unrelated blobs.
What Gets Sent to the Server
Data Example / Format
Salt 16 random bytes, base64 encoded
IV 12 random bytes, base64 encoded
Encrypted blob AES-GCM ciphertext + 16-byte auth tag, base64 encoded
Password hash Bcrypt of the password for server-side door check
Integrity hash SHA-256 of the entire encrypted blob for tamper detection
The server stores salt, IV, and encrypted blob together. When the recipient decrypts, the
browser fetches all three, re-derives the key using the recipient's password + the salt, and
attempts AES-GCM decryption with the IV. If the password is wrong, decryption fails
cryptographically. Nothing is guessable or brutable from the ciphertext alone.
15. Cost Breakdown
This is why serverless is perfect for your use case. At low traffic the cost is almost nothing. It
scales automatically with usage and you never pay for idle capacity.
Service Monthly Cost at Early Stage
Route 53 $0.50 per hosted zone
ACM Free
CloudFront Free tier covers first 1TB/month and 10M requests
S3 (React app) Free tier covers first 5GB
S3 (Content) Minimal — depends on clip volume and size
API Gateway Free tier covers first 1M requests/month
Lambda Free tier covers first 1M invocations/month
DynamoDB Free tier covers 25GB storage and 200M requests/month
EventBridge Free — 720 invocations/month is negligible
WAF $5.00/month fixed + usage
TOTAL ~$5.50/month until significant traffic
WAF at $5/month is your dominant cost at early stage. Everything else is effectively free until
you reach meaningful scale. As traffic grows, CloudFront and Lambda costs scale gracefully —
you pay for what you use, nothing more.
16. Deployment Order
Deploy in this exact order. Each step depends on the previous one.
Create Route 53 Hosted Zone. Get the 4 nameservers. Update GoDaddy. Wait 24-
1
48 hours.
Request ACM Certificate in us-east-1. Add the CNAME validation record to Route
2
53. Wait ~5 minutes for AWS to issue it.
Create S3 bucket for React app. Enable static website hosting. Block all public
3
access.
Create S3 bucket for encrypted content. Block all public access. Set up lifecycle rule
4
for 35-day auto-delete.
Create DynamoDB table. Partition key: slug (String). Enable TTL on the expiresAt
5
attribute.
Create IAM role for Lambda. Grant: S3 read/write on content bucket, DynamoDB
6
read/write on clips table, CloudWatch Logs write.
Create Lambda functions (create, view, cleanup, slug-check). Attach the IAM role.
7
Set environment variables: CONTENT_BUCKET name, TABLE_NAME.
Create API Gateway HTTP API. Add routes pointing to each Lambda. Configure
8
CORS.
9 Create EventBridge rule: rate(1 hour), target = cleanup Lambda.
Create CloudFront distribution. Origin 1: S3 bucket (with OAC). Origin 2: API
10 Gateway. Path /api/* → API Gateway. All other paths → S3. Custom error: 403/404
→ index.html 200.
Attach WAF to CloudFront distribution. Enable AWS Managed Rules Common Rule
11
Set.
12 Add ALIAS record in Route 53: pastit.site → CloudFront domain name.
13 Build React app (npm run build). Sync to S3. Invalidate CloudFront cache.
Test end to end: create a clip, copy link, open in incognito, enter password, verify
14
content appears.
17. Environment Variables & Config
Your Lambda functions need to know which S3 bucket and DynamoDB table to use. Set these
as environment variables in the Lambda configuration.
Variable Value
CONTENT_BUCKET your-pastit-content-bucket-name
CLIPS_TABLE pastit-clips
ALLOWED_ORIGIN https://pastit.site
MAX_FILE_SIZE_MB 50
DEFAULT_EXPIRY_DAYS 7
Your React app needs to know where the API is. Set this as a build-time environment variable:
Variable Value
REACT_APP_API_URL https://pastit.site/api
CloudFront routes /api/* to API Gateway, so your frontend just calls /api/* and CloudFront
handles the routing. No hardcoded API Gateway URLs in your frontend code.
18. Summary — Why This Stack
Every choice in this architecture serves the same goal: zero operational overhead, zero trust
required, zero cost at early stage.
• Serverless (Lambda + API Gateway) — no servers to patch, manage, or pay for when
idle
• S3 + CloudFront — globally fast static delivery for the React app with no infrastructure
• DynamoDB — TTL handles expiry automatically, atomic operations prevent race
conditions
• Browser-side encryption — the server is structurally incapable of reading user content
• WAF — attack protection with zero maintenance, managed rule sets updated by AWS
• Route 53 + ACM — DNS and HTTPS fully managed, auto-renewing, integrated with
everything
The entire system from a user hitting pastit.site/myslug to seeing decrypted content involves:
Route 53 (DNS, <1ms), CloudFront (edge delivery, global), WAF (security check, <1ms), API
Gateway (routing, <1ms), Lambda (business logic, <50ms), DynamoDB (metadata read, <5ms),
S3 (blob read, <20ms), browser decryption (<100ms). Total: well under 200ms for most users
worldwide.
pastit.site — Built on AWS, owned by no one, readable by no one.
